Guide Me: Steps to take when...
===============================

Your landlord wants to evict you and you get a summons to go to court
---------------------------------------------------------------------

#### Call the Court if you cannot access Zoom

Because of the COVID 19 pandemic, the courts are holding hearings by
ZOOM or telephone. After you receive the summons, the court will mail
you a notice telling you how to call-in or use Zoom for your hearing.
Look for information on this notice on what to do if you cannot get on
Zoom or cannot attend court.

#### Go to court! -- Even if you think you worked everything out with your landlord. 

If you do not show up, the landlord can ask the court for a \"default
judgment\" against you.

#### File an Answer

Use the Answer form to explain to the court, why you should not be
evicted. The reasons you should not be evicted are your \"defenses\".

If your landlord is evicting you because you are behind on rent, or for
a reason that is not your fault, your landlord may have done something
wrong. You will have \"counterclaims\" for the things they did wrong.
Include your counterclaims in your Answer also.

Use [Massachusetts Defense Eviction (MADE)](https://www.masslegalhelp.org/made), guided questions to help
you put together **your** Answer in your eviction case online. At the
end of the \"interview\" you will be able to email, download, and print
your Answer.

Or, you can use the PDF booklet, [The Answer: Representing Yourself in
Court How to Defend Your Eviction Case](https://www.masslegalhelp.org/housing/lt1-booklet-3-answer.pdf).

The **deadline** for filing an Answer is three business days before your
first court hearing.

You must serve your landlord or their lawyer on the same date you file
your Answer with the court.

#### Serve a Demand for Discovery

You or your landlord may need information from each other so you can
prepare for trial.

Discovery is the way people in a court case ask the other side for
information.

In eviction cases, Discovery is

-   a list of questions, called \"Interrogatories\" and

-   a request for documents.

You have the right to serve a Demand for Discovery on your landlord by
the same date that your Answer is due.

See the PDF Booklet, [Discovery: Representing Yourself in Court: How to
Get Information to Prepare for Your Trial](https://www.masslegalhelp.org/housing/lt1-booklet-4-discovery.pdf).

####  File a Notice of Transfer to Housing Court

If your landlord filed the eviction case in a District Court, you have
the right to transfer the case to the Housing Court.

Housing Courts have more resources to help tenants who are representing
themselves. See the PDF Booklet, [Transfer: Representing Yourself in
Court: Why Transfer Your Case to Housing Court?](https://www.masslegalhelp.org/housing/lt1-booklet-5-transfer.pdf)
