Guide Me: Steps you can take when...
====================================
Your landlord wants to evict you and
-------------------------------------------------------
You had a hearing before a judge and lost and 
-------------------------------------------------------
You have not been served with a notice of scheduled eviction.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This means a judgment for possession (eviction) and, if you owed rent,
for damages has been entered against you. It will also state that you
have to pay the landlord's court costs and interest that has come due on
any unpaid rent.

11 days after the date of the judgment, the landlord can request an
Execution from the court. This is the legal document a landlord needs to
schedule a date to have you physically evicted if you do not leave on
your own.

#### File an Appeal

You can file an Appeal, but you only have 10 days from the date of the
judgment to do this.

See [Appeals -Representing yourself in an Eviction Case](https://www.masslegalhelp.org/housing/lt1-booklet-7-appeals.pdf).

#### Ask the Court for a \"Stay of the Execution\" 

You can file a motion that asks the court to \"stay\" or delay the
execution. If the court grants a \"stay of the execution,\" the landlord
cannot move forward with physically evicting you until the stay ends.

See [Stay -- Representing Yourself in an Eviction Case](https://www.masslegalhelp.org/housing/lt1-booklet-8-stay.pdf).

####  Until June 30, 2021, you may be eligible to stop an eviction where your landlord is asking for back rent

You might be protected by the federal CDC Moratorium if you

-   cannot pay your full rent becauseÂ you have lost income or have high
    medical expenses,

-   are making best efforts to pay the rent including applying for
    financial help, and

-   are likely to become homeless or doubled up if evicted.

[Learn more](https://www.masslegalhelp.org/covid-19/housing) about the
moratorium, and how to send your landlord a
[declaration](https://MassLegalHelp.org/cdc-declaration.pdf)
that you are protected by the federal CDC moratorium on evictions.

#### Talk to Your landlord

Even after you lose your eviction case, many landlords are still willing
to negotiate an agreement with you.

If your eviction is because you owe rent, some landlords will agree to a
payment plan and let you stay if you can get caught up on your rent.

Even if a landlord is not interested in letting you stay long-term, many
landlords will agree to give you a reasonable amount of time to move on
your own.

It may cost the landlord more to pay a sheriff or constable to evict
you, and move all your things out.
