#### My landlord wants to evict me 
#### and
#### I had a hearing before a judge and I lost 
#### and
#### I have been served with a notice of scheduled eviction.

*This means that a judgment for possession (eviction) and, if you owed
rent, for damages has entered against you. It will also state that you
have to pay the landlord's court costs and interest that has come due on
any unpaid rent.*

*This also means that the landlord has gotten an execution from the
court, has now hired the county sheriff or a constable to forcibly
remove you from the apartment if you don't leave on your own. Before a
sheriff or constable can evict you, however, they must give you a
written notice of the date and time you will be evicted, and this notice
must be served on you at least 48 hours before the date of your
eviction.*

Here are some steps you can take:

##### File a Motion To Stop Physical Eviction: 

Even after you have been served with a notice of physical eviction, you
still might be able to get the court to stop or postpone a scheduled
eviction. These stays are hard to get and are usually only granted when
you have an emergency or can show that the landlord will not be harmed
by granting a postponement of your eviction.

##### Talk to Your Landlord:

Even after you lose your eviction case, many landlords are still willing
to negotiate an agreement with you. If your eviction is because you owe
rent, some landlords will still make a payment plan and let you stay as
long as you can get caught up on your rent. Even if a landlord is not
interested in letting you stay long term, many landlords will agree to
give you a reasonable amount of time to move on your own because the
landlord has to pay more money to have you forcibly evicted.

##### Apply for Shelter (aka Emergency Assistance):

You may be eligible for shelter if the eviction was because you could no
longer afford your rent or did not other do something to cause your
eviction. Learn more about how to get shelter here,
[https://www.mass.gov/emergency-housing-assistance-programs](https://www.mass.gov/emergency-housing-assistance-programs)


