GUIDE ME: My landlord wants to evict me

> and
>
> I missed my court date and was defaulted
>
> and
>
> I have now been served with a Notice of Scheduled Eviction.

**Here are some steps you can take.**

**File a Motion To Stop Physical Eviction**:

Even after you have been served with a notice of physical eviction, you
still might be able to get the court to stop or postpone a scheduled
eviction. These stays are hard to get and are usually only granted when
you have an emergency or can show that the landlord will not be harmed
by granting a postponement of your eviction.

**File a Motion to Remove Default:**

You can file a Motion to Remove Default Judgment. Learn more about
filing this motion at
[www.masslegalhelp.org/housing/lt1-booklet-6-removing-default.pdf](http://www.masslegalhelp.org/housing/lt1-booklet-6-removing-default.pdf).

If the court grants your motion to remove default, the judgment that had
been entered gets canceled and you go back to where the case started.

**Talk to Your Landlord:**

Even after you lose your eviction case, many landlords are still willing
to negotiate an agreement with you. If your eviction is because you owe
rent, some landlords will still make a payment plan and let you stay as
long as you can get caught up on your rent. Even if a landlord is not
interested in letting you stay long term, many landlords will agree to
give you a reasonable amount of time to move on your own because the
landlord has to pay more money to have you forcibly evicted.

**Apply for Shelter (aka Emergency Assistance):**

You may be eligible for shelter if the eviction was because you could no
longer afford your rent or did not other do something to cause your
eviction. Learn more about how to get shelter here,
<https://www.mass.gov/emergency-housing-assistance-programs>

*The suggestions provided above are not legal advice and are provided as
information only.*

*Whenever you have a legal problem, it is always best to talk to a
lawyer who can give you advice that is uniquely tailored to your
situation. The [Massachusetts Legal Resource Finder]{.underline} can
help you find lawyers and other legal help resources in your area.*
