**GUIDE ME: I'm having problems with my neighbors**

Here are some steps you can take.

Talk to your neighbor 
----------------------

If you feel safe, talk to your neighbor about the problem. Simply
speaking to your neighbor may help. Maybe it's about how loud they play
their music or TV. Maybe it's about how they park their car, or how they
clean-up after themselves in the laundry room or other common areas.
Maybe it's the way their kids play in the hallways. Sometimes neighbors
do not have any idea they are bothering you.

Ask your landlord for help - in writing 
----------------------------------------

If you and your neighbor have the same landlord, you can ask your
landlord for help. Under the law, your landlord has a duty to protect
you from unreasonable disturbances. The law calls this the right to
"Quiet Enjoyment". In some instances, this law could require a landlord
to evict a tenant whose conduct is really bad.

When you complain to the landlord,

1.  Explain the problem in writing.

2.  Include the dates and times your neighbor made it impossible for you
    to feel at home.

3.  Describe your neighbor's actions.

4.  Tell your landlord you need them to do something about the problem.

5.  Remind your landlord that if they do not take care of the problem,
    they could be "in breach of your right to quite enjoyment" and this
    is breaking the law.

6.  Keep copies of everything you send your landlord.

Call the police if your neighbor commits a crime
------------------------------------------------

Sometimes your neighbor is obviously committing a crime. If you see your
neighbor dealing drugs, call the police. If your neighbor has robbed you
or attacked you, report the crime to the police.

Some conduct is less obviously a crime. For example, making too much
noise can also be a crime. Some cities and towns have local laws, called
ordinances, that outlaw certain levels or types of noise at different
times of the day. The police can enforce these local laws too.

Keep in mind that calling the police won't always result in a full
solution to the problem you are having with neighbors. However, it is
still very important to do so for another reason: Calling the police
creates a record which can later be very useful to you or your landlord
if this disturbance somehow becomes part of a court case like an
eviction or restraining order.

Get To Court

If your landlord refuses to take action to stop the disturbances after
you have complained, you might be able to get an order from a court
telling your landlord to do something to stop the disturbance. If your
neighbor's conduct is really bad, you might be able to get a restraining
order against them. You can get a restraining order from your local
Housing Court. Most courts have forms that you can fill out.

*The suggestions provided above are not legal advice and are provided as
information only.*

*Whenever you have a legal problem, it is always best to talk to a
lawyer who can give you advice that is uniquely tailored to your
situation. The [Massachusetts Legal Resource Finder]{.underline} can
help you find lawyers and other legal help resources in your area.*
