**Guide Me**: My landlord wants to raise the rent

And

I am a tenant at will.

Or

I never had a written agreement.

If you are a tenant at will or never had a written agreement, your
landlord can *propose* a rent increase anytime.

**Can my landlord just raise the rent?**

No. You must agree to the rent increase before a landlord can start
charging you the rent increase.

**Watch Out**: *The moment you start paying the higher rent -- even if
you never signed anything -- you have accepted the rent increase and are
stuck paying it*. However, until you agree to pay the increase, you are
not required to pay the higher rent.

**Is there a requirement that the landlord give me written notice?**

While you can agree to a rent increase any time -- even orally, a
landlord may send a written notice to quit that terminates your existing
tenancy that includes an offer to enter into a new tenancy at a higher
rent. While this notice is not required, many landlords will ask for a
rent increase this way because if you don't agree to the rent increase,
the landlord can then proceed to evict you. Learn more about what
happens if you don't accept a rent increase below

**Is there any limit on how much a landlord can raise the rent**?

No. Landlords can set rent at whatever amount they think they can get
tenants to pay, not what you can afford. However, a landlord can not
raise the rent as a way to [retaliate]{.underline} against you. If your
landlord asks for rent increase within 6 months of reporting bad
conditions in writing to the landlord or by your reporting code
violations, the rent increase could be seen as a retaliation. Learn more
about what to do if you think your landlord is retaliating against you.

**I don't want to pay the rent increase. What should I do?**

1.  Don't sign anything that says you agree to the rent increase.

2.  Tell the landlord clearly in writing that you do not accept the rent
    increase.

3.  Continue to pay the rent you had been paying.

4.  Do not pay the rent increase. *The moment you start paying the
    higher rent -- even if you never signed anything -- you have
    accepted the rent increase and are stuck paying it*.

5.  Negotiate a smaller rent increase. If you are willing to pay a
    smaller rent increase, ask your landlord if he will accept a lesser
    increase. Some landlords may agree.

**What will happen if I don't accept the rent increase?**

When you don't accept a rent increase, it means you no longer have an
agreement with the landlord on the continuation of your tenancy. At this
point a landlord could ask you to leave. If you don't leave voluntarily
a landlord could begin an eviction case against. But the landlord would
first have to send you a notice to quit. However, as long as you
continue to pay your existing rent, the landlord can not evict you for
non payment of rent. When evictions are brought because a tenant refused
to pay a rent increase, tenants typically can get additional time to
move.

Learn more about [Rent]{.underline} [Increases]{.underline}

[\
]{.underline}
